.\" Manpage for heaptrace.
.\" Contact aaron1esau@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "30 November 2021" "2.2.x" "heaptrace man page"
.SH NAME
heaptrace \- helps visualize heap operations for pwn and debugging
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B heaptrace
.I [options...]
.B <target>
.I [args...]


.B heaptrace
.I [options...]
.B --attach <pid>

.SH DESCRIPTION
heaptrace is a heap debugger for tracking glibc heap operations in ELF64 (x86_64) binaries. Its purpose is to help visualize heap operations when debugging binaries or doing heap pwn.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-p <pid>, --attach <pid>, --pid <pid>"
Tells heaptrace to attach to the specified
.I pid 
instead of running the binary from the
.I target
argument. Note that if you specify this argument 
you do not have to specify
.I target

.IP "-b <expression>, --break=<expression>, --break-at=<expression>"
Send SIGSTOP to the process when the specified 
.I expression
is satisfied and attach the GNU debugger 
(gdb) to the process.

This argument supports complex expressions. Please 
See the documentation for more information: 
https://github.com/Arinerron/heaptrace/wiki/How-to-Create-Breakpoints

.IP "-B <expression>, --break-after=<expression>"
Similar to 
.I --break
\. Replaces the tracer 
process with gdb, but only after the heap function 
returns. See the documentation for more information: 
https://github.com/Arinerron/heaptrace/wiki/How-to-Create-Breakpoints

.IP "-e <name=value>, --environ=<name=value>, --environment=<name=value>"
Sets a single environmental variable. Useful for 
setting runtime settings for the target such as 
.B "LD_PRELOAD=./libc.so.6"
without having them affect 
heaptrace's runtime configuration. This option can 
be used multiple times.

.IP "-s <sym_defs>, --symbols=<sym_defs>"
Override the values heaptrace detects for the 
malloc/calloc/free/realloc/reallocarray symbols. 
Useful if heaptrace fails to automatically 
identify heap functions in a stripped binary. See 
the wiki for more info.

.IP "-F, --follow-fork, --follow"
Tells heaptrace to detach the parent and follow 
the child if the target calls fork(), vfork(), or 
clone().

The default behavior is to detatch the child and 
only trace the parent.

.IP "-G <path>, --gdb-path=<path>"
Tells heaptrace to use the path to gdb specified 
in 
.I path
instead of
.B "/usr/bin/gdb"
(default).

.IP "-w <width>, --width=<width>, --term-width=<width>"
Force a certain terminal 
.I width
\.

.IP "-o <file>, --output=<file>"
Write the heaptrace output to 
.I file
instead of 
.B "/dev/stderr"
(which is the default output path).

.IP "-v, --verbose"
Prints verbose information such as line numbers in
source code given the required debugging info is
stored in the ELF.

.IP "-V, --version"
Displays the current heaptrace version.

.IP "-h, --help"
Shows a help menu.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gdb(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Aaron Esau (aaron1esau@gmail.com)
